# autoupdate
This script wants to get the upgrade process of a freifunk-berlin router via terminal smooth and easy.

For a more complete and more recent documentation (currently only in German), have a look for /doc/paper_autoupdate.pdf

## Features
* manual mode
  * saves a backup on your (remote) machine
    * (needs to be configured in /etc/config/autoupdate)
  * gets the model of the router and its uplink type
  * fetches the corresponding *sysupgrade.bin* and downloads it
  * does the upgrade

* automatic mode
  * does save backup in /root/
  * does upgrade automatically

At default autoupdate is only avaiable in manual mode. To set it working automatically, you need to set a variable in the config file.

## Usage
The script will give some explanatory text, if you start it without operators.

### -m) Manual Mode
To start autoupdate in manual mode, type `autoupdate -m` in the CLI of your Freifunk Berlin router.

Before setting the script into auto mode (see below) it is strongly recommended to run it one time manually! Please check, if 
the router model and the uplink type is recognised correctly (especially hardware revisions). If not, you should override 
them by storing the correct values in the config file. `/etc/config/autoupdate`

For example:
`TP-LINK TL-WR1043ND v3` states itself as `TP-LINK TL-WR1043ND v2`. To fix that, set
```
config 'autoupdate' 'router'
	option 'router' 'null'
```
to
```
config 'autoupdate' 'router'
        option 'router' 'TP-LINK TL-WR1043ND v3'
```
You may also use uci, if you are more comfortable with that:
```
uci set autoupdate.router.router='TP-LINK TL-WR1043ND v3'
uci commit autoupdate
```

### -a) Automatic Mode
Set `autoupdate.automode.automode='true'` in the config file. Also the values`on, yes, 1` are accepted. The script will 
check for updates weekly on Thursday.
If automode is set on, the automatic update might also be started manually by `autoupdate -a`.

### -r) Do Remote Backup
If you set up the values in config file, this will trigger the router to save a backup directly onto your 
remote machine. For this your machine must be accessible via ssh. Please mind to really give a slash at the end of the remote path.
```
	option 'client_path' '/complete/path/to/your/backups/'
```

### -s) Send Router String
This "sends" _(have a look in details section)_ the router string to the developers. This happens every week on Monday. With that
string sent we can manage to take the link lists up to date, because the strings may vary in different firmware versions. _(have a look above)_ 


## Technical Details
### Format of Link Definition Files
To get the right download link, the script loads a signed json file. This file should have a form like this:
```json
{
  "date":"20190512",
  "ROUTER-NAME#1":
  {
    "default": "http://link-to-sysupgrade.bin",
    "tunneldigger": "http://link-to-sysupgrade.bin"
  },
  "ROUTER-NAME#2":
  {
    "default": "http://link-to-sysupgrade.bin",
    "tunneldigger": "http://link-to-sysupgrade.bin"
  }
}
```
To generate those files automatically, you should have a look at json-creator https://github.com/Akira25/json-creator

### Authenticy Check for Link Definition Files
The authenticy check function checks the signatures of the link definition file againts all the public keys 
in /usr/share/autoupdate/keys/. Update do only proceed, if a certain amount of signatures was valid. This amount is specified
in /etc/config/autoupdate.
We use openwrt-built-in `usign` for that.

The value should match with the importance of the upgrade branch. For example:

|   branch name		| minimum amount of valid signatures |
|-------------------|------------------------------------|
|   stable			|	4								 |
|   testing			|	3								 |
|   experimental	|	1								 |

One signature in each branch might be generated by the buildbot itself.

**Caution:** If you change the branch, you should change amount of signatures accordingly.

### Generation and Signing of Link Definiton Files
Please check [json-creator](https://github.com/Akira25/json-creator) manual.

### Send String Function
Actually the string is not "send". Due to firewalls and that wole stuff, the string is transmitted via wget. wget will
try to get `http://some-defined-server.berlin/devicename;$ROUTER;`. It will fail by intention, but the device strings can be
extracted fairly easy from the web server's `access.log`.

_Have a look at name-finder._

## Disclaimer
Upgrades which are not supported by the developers of Freifunk Berlin might break your configuration. Therefore this script 
should not be used in crucial environments like backbone-setups.

If you are comfortable with C, you should have a look at gluon-autoupdater too.
https://github.com/freifunk-gluon/packages/tree/master/admin/autoupdater

